In the previous lesson, we have designed our `answers` table schema to store all answers in our application.
Now instead of inserting some answers manually we will be using model factories again to pre-populate the
answers programmatically as we did when we were building our questions feature.
All right let's head over to our terminal and create
new branch by saying: git checkout -b lesson-14
now we are in new branch and we can finally start
our work now by generating your factory here we can
say: php artisan make:factory and then the
factory name will be `AnswerFactory`
All right
let's open the answer factory
and here in factory define let's change
the Model to App\Answer
and in array
let's set the body with fake paragraphs
It's going to be three to seven paragraphs.
And don't forget to set `true` in the second argument
to convert the paragraphs into a single string.
Since the answer is created by a user
so you let's specify user_id
and the value will be a random user in this case.
But how can we do that?
Here we can say App user Pluck than Id
random.
I'll explain this shortly
for now
let's also define votes_count
and set the value with a random number.
Let's say zero to five votes. Here we don't need to define question_id because we will utilize eloquent relationship
and we do that in Database Seeder.
Now let me explain this line. Let me open tinker
and now I'll open other terminal because I'll need more
space.
And here we can call App User pluck id
here we will get a list of all user's ID in the collection.
Now we can get one item from the collection randomly by calling random.
So when we call this again
we'll get different user ID
or other approach.
You can get the list of all users ID in array by calling
all after that you can pass it in laravel
array random helper function like this.
And we get the same thing.
OK
Now let's call this factory in our database seeder.
Let's open the database seeder.
And here we already called laravel factory helper to create several users and for each user we also
create 1 to 5 questions randomly.
Now here we need to create several answers for every question.
Do you have any idea? So here after save many method calling we can chain it with each method.
pass in a closer as argument
the closure will be has a single argument to represent a question instance.
So let's call it `q`. Remember a question has many answers and we have defined answers  relationship
method in our question model in the previous lesson.
So here we can say q answers
save many to create more than one answer.
Inside here we can call another laravel factory help function.
Remember this function needs two arguments.
The first one is the model name
and the second is how many data will be created.
And last, to actually generate the
model factory we need to call make.
So let me review this code once again.
So here we create several users
three in this case. Here we call factory create
to insert the users to database directly and then for
each user it will be created 1 to 5 questions randomly and for each question it will be created 1 to 5 answers
randomly. Here in questions and answers
we call save many and this method needs array of object
that's why inside it we call factory `make` because this method will not directly inserting data to database.
Instead it will return the array contains model instances.
OK I hope this makes sense to you.
Now let's save all changes.
I get error
OK.
Now let's switch over to our terminal
and here we need to reset our database before we run out to seed.
So here we can say: php artisan
migrate:fresh --seed
all right
I think everything is perfectly fine.
Now let me open phpmyadmin
I'll good to users stable here I have three users.
Now I'll see the questions table
here
I have 6 questions.
Last I'll go to answers table
and here
I have 21 answers.
Note here that the number in answers count does not reflect the actual number of related answers.
It's only a random number
that we defined
in here.
Now you may be asking how can we update the answers count with the actual number of the related answers?
That's a good question. And it's perfectly time to me
to show you about eloquent event.